paper/paper.md, before:

---
title: 'OceanBioME.jl: A flexible environment for modelling the coupled interactions between ocean biogeochemistry and physics'
tags:
  - julia
  - biogeochemistry
  - climate
  - ocean
  - carbon
authors:
  - name: Jago Strong-Wright
    orcid: 0000-0002-7174-5283
    corresponding: true
    affiliation: "1, 2"
  - name: Si Chen
    affiliation: "1, 2"
    equal-contrib: true
  - name: Navid C Constantinou
    orcid: 0000-0002-8149-4094
    affiliation: 3, 4
    equal-contrib: true
  - name: Simone Silvestri
    affiliation: 5
    equal-contrib: true
  - name: Gregory LeClaire Wagner
    orcid: 0000-0001-5317-2445
    affiliation: 5
    equal-contrib: true
  - name: John R Taylor
    orcid : 0000-0002-1292-3756
    affiliation: "1, 2"
affiliations:
 - name: Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom
   index: 1
 - name: Centre for Climate Repair, Cambridge, United Kingdom
   index: 2
 - name: Australian National University, Australia
   index: 3
 - name: Australian Research Council Centre for Climate Extremes
   index: 4
 - name: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
   index: 5
date: 24 June 2023
bibliography: paper.bib
---

# Statement of Need

To date, about 25% of anthropogenic carbon emissions have been taken up by the ocean [@Friedlingstein2022]. 
This occurs through complex interactions between physics, chemistry, and biology, much of which is poorly understood. 
Due to the vast size of the ocean and the sparsity of data, modelling and data assimilation play a vital role in quantifying the ocean carbon cycle. 
Traditionally ocean biogeochemical (BGC) modelling involves large and inflexible code bases written in high-performance but low-level languages which require huge computational resources to execute. 
This causes a barrier to experimentation and innovation as users must develop expertise in both the science and complex code.

One area where novel ideas must be explored with BGC codes is assessing ocean carbon dioxide removal (OCDR) strategies. Quantifying the effectiveness and identifying the impacts of OCDR is challenging due to the aforementioned complexity of the ocean BGC system.
Moreover, field trials of OCDR interventions are generally small-scale and targeted, while the intervention required to have a climate-scale impact is regional or global.
This necessitates adaptable, easy-to-use, and verifiable BGC modelling tools which can be used to assess OCDR strategies at the fast pace with which they are being developed [@NationalAcademies2022].
We have built ``OceanBioME.jl`` to meet these challenges by creating a tool that provides a modular interface to the different components, within the ocean modelling framework provided by ``Oceananigans.jl``.
This allows easy access to a suite of biogeochemical models ranging from simple idealized to full-complexity models.
The flexibility of the ``Oceananigans.jl`` framework allows ``OceanBioME.jl`` to be applied across a wide range of scales and use cases, including small-scale large-eddy simulations and regional and global models.

# Summary

``OceanBioME.jl`` is a flexible modelling environment written in Julia [@julia] for modelling the coupled interactions between ocean biogeochemistry, carbonate chemistry, and physics.
``OceanBioME.jl`` can be used as a stand-alone box model, or integrated into ``Oceananigans.jl`` [@Oceananigans] simulations of ocean dynamics in one, two, or three dimensions.
As a result, ``OceanBioME.jl`` and ``Oceananigans.jl`` can be used to simulate the biogeochemical response across an enormous range of scales: from surface boundary layer turbulence at the meter scale to eddying global ocean simulations at the planetary scale, and on computational systems ranging from laptops to supercomputers.
An example of a problem involving small-scale flow features is shown in \autoref{eady}, which shows a simulation of a sub-mesoscale eddy in a 1km x 1km horizontal domain with an intermediate complexity biogeochemical model and a kelp growth model solved along the trajectories of drifting buoys (details of examples mentioned in this paper are listed at the end).
``OceanBioME.jl`` leverages Julia's multiple dispatch and effective inline capabilities to fuse its computations directly into existing ``Oceananigans.jl`` kernels, thus maintaining ``Oceananigans.jl``'s bespoke performance, memory- and cost-efficiency on GPUs in ``OceanBioME.jl``-augmented simulations.

![Here we replicate the Eady problem where a background buoyancy gradient and corresponding thermal wind generate a sub-mesoscale eddy, roughly following the setup of Taylor (2016).
To this physical setup, we added a medium complexity (9 tracers) biogeochemical model, some of which are shown above.
On top of this, we added particles modelling the growth of sugar kelp which are free-floating and advected by the flow, and carbon dioxide exchange from the air.
Thanks to Julia's speed and efficiency the above model (1 km × 1 km × 100 m with 64 × 64 × 16 grid points) took about 30 minutes of computing time to simulate 10 days of evolution on an Nvidia P100 GPU. 
Panel (a) shows the domain with the colour representing the concentration of various biogeochemical tracer fields: inorganic carbon, organic carbon (dissolved and particulate), phytoplankton, and nutrients. 
The increase in concentration in the centre of the eddy can be seen, as well as carbon being subducted (most visible in the xz face in the organic carbon).
Additionally, points on the surface represent the kelp particle positions, with the colour representing the range of frond size.
Panel (b) shows the carbon stored in each kelp frond, highlighting the variability depending on the nutrition availability in each particle's location history.
Figure made with ``Makie.jl`` [@makie]. \label{eady}](eady_example.png)

``OceanBioME.jl`` is built with a highly modular design that allows user control and customization.
There are two distinct module types implemented in ``OceanBioME.jl``:

- First, we provide tracer-based ecosystem modules in `AdvectedPopulations` as a set of coupled ordinary differential equations which evolve the concentration of the tracer.
These equations can be solved by ``OceanBioME.jl`` as box models, which is particularly useful for testing.
The same equations can be integrated by ``Oceananigans.jl`` to provide where the tracers are also advected and diffused.

- The second module type is `Individual` "biologically active" particles.
These consist of individual-based models solved along particle paths and can be coupled with the tracer-based modules and physics from ``Oceananigans.jl``.
The biologically active particles can be advected by the currents, and/or they can move according to prescribed dynamics.
For example, migrating zooplankton or fish can be modelled with biologically active particles and ``OceanBioME.jl`` allows these to interact with tracer-based components such as phytoplankton or oxygen.

For example, the `GasExchange` submodule calculates the carbon dioxide and oxygen flux at the sea surface, while the `Sediments` modules calculate fluxes of carbon and oxygen at the seafloor.

We currently provide a simple Nutrient-Phytoplankton-Zooplankton-Detritus (NPZD) model [@npzd], and an intermediate complexity model, LOBSTER [@lobster], we have set up a straightforward "plug and play" framework to add additional tracers such as carbonate and oxygen chemistry systems and additional forcing. 
These `AdvectedPopulations` are supported by `Boundaries` modules which are easy to apply and provide information at the top and bottom of the ocean.
We have implemented comprehensive air-sea flux models [e.g. @wanninkhof:1992] within the `GasExchange` submodule to calculate carbon dioxide and oxygen flux at the sea surface, and sediment models [e.g. @soetaert:2000] which calculate fluxes of carbon and oxygen at the seafloor.
We focus on the simulation of idealized sub-mesoscale systems, but this flexible framework allows users to model problems of any scale.
For example, \autoref{global} shows the annual average surface phytoplankton concentration from a near-global model NPZD model run.
This framework is made possible by our contributions to ``Oceananigans.jl``, adding a streamlined user interface to swap biogeochemical models with no modification to other model configurations.
This interface also facilitates rapid prototyping, as models can be implemented and swapped easily by just extending a few key functions.
This flexibility and ease-of-use is unmatched in existing biogeochemical models.

![Here we show the annual average surface phytoplankton concentration from a near-global NPZD model run. 
It shows reasonably good reproduction of large-scale patterns for such a simple and uncalibrated model but demonstrates further work such as nutrient input from rivers and tuning physics parametrisations that are required in the future.
We ran this model with a 1° horizontal resolution and 48 (irregularly spaced) vertical points.
It took around 45 minutes per year to run on an Nvidia A100 GPU when integrating the physics, or around 5 minutes per year when using pre-calculated velocity fields.
Figure made with ``Makie.jl`` [@makie]. \label{global}](phytoplankton.png)

The biologically active particles built into ``OceanBioME.jl`` are particularly useful for OCDR applications.
Accurate carbon accounting is essential for assessing the effectiveness of OCDR strategies.
Biologically active particles can be used to track carbon from a particular source while accounting for interactions with its surroundings.
Biologically active particles can also be used to model OCDR deployment strategies including seaweed cultivation, alkalinity enhancement, and marine biomass regeneration.
``OceanBioME.jl`` currently includes an extended version of the sugar kelp model presented by @broch:2012 as an example of the utility and implementation of these features.
\autoref{column} shows a simple column model with an OCDR intervention (macroalgae growth) added after a warm-up period, which increases the carbon export of the system.

![Here we show the results of a 1D model, forced by idealised light and mixing, which qualitatively reproduces the biogeochemical cycles in the North Atlantic.
We then add kelp (500 frond / m² in the top 50 m of water) in December of the 2ⁿᵈ year (black vertical line) which causes an increase in air-sea carbon dioxide exchange and sinking export. Changes to the phytoplankton growth cycle are also apparent.
Figure made with ``Makie.jl`` [@makie]. \label{column}](column_example.png)

The implementation of OceanBioME.jl models allows for seamless integration with data assimilation packages, such as ``EnsembleKalmanProcesses.jl`` [@ekp]. 
This feature facilitates rapid calibration of model parameters, providing a powerful utility for integrating observations and models, with the potential to improve model skill and identify key sources of uncertainty.

A key metric for the validity of biogeochemical systems is the conservation of elements such as carbon and nitrogen in the system.
We therefore continuously test the implemented models in a variety of simple scenarios (i.e. isolated, with/without air-sea flux, with/without sediment) to ensure that conservation conditions are met, and we will continue to add tests for any new models.
Additionally, we check ``OceanBioME.jl`` utilities through standard tests such as comparison to analytical solutions for light attenuation, and conservation of tracers for active particle exudation and sinking.

Finally, this software is currently facilitating multiple research projects into ocean CDR which would have been significantly harder with other solutions.
For example, Chen (In prep.) is using the active particle coupling provided to investigate the effects of location and planting density of kelp in the open ocean on their carbon drawdown effect, as in the example above.
Additionally, Strong-Wright (In prep.) is using the coupling of both the biogeochemistry and easy interface to couple the physics to study flow interactions with a fully resolved giant kelp forest model including the effects on nutrient transport and distribution.

# Examples

| Example| OceanBioME features utilised        | Code location |
|--------------|--------------|---------------|
| Sub-mesoscale eddy (\autoref{eady}) | LOBSTER biogeochemical model$^1$ with carbonate model active, CO$_2$ exchange with the air$^2$, Light attenuation$^3$, mass conserving negativity protection$^4$ | `examples/eady.jl` with resolution increased to 64x64x16|
| Near-global (\autoref{global}) | Light attenuation$^3$, NPZD model$^5$| Work in progress, available upon request/for collaboration |
| Idealised 1D model with kelp individuals (\autoref{column}) |  LOBSTER biogeochemical model$^1$ with carbonate model and variable Redfield ratio for organic components active, CO$_2$ exchange with the air$^2$, light attenuation$^3$, mass conserving negativity protection$^4$, and Saccharina Latissima (sugar kelp) model$^6$ | `paper/figures/column.jl`, similar to `examples/column.jl` and `examples/kelp.jl` |

$^1$ `LOBSTER`\
$^2$ `GasExchange`\
$^3$ `TwoBandPhotosyntheticallyActiveRadiation`\
$^4$ `ScaleNegativeTracers`\
$^5$ `NutrientPhytoplanktonZooplanktonDetritus`\
$^6$ `SLatissima`

<!---
TODO: add eady plotting script
--->
# Acknowledgements

We would like to thank the [Climate Modeling Alliance](https://clima.caltech.edu) team and ``Oceananigans.jl`` contributors for their fantastic project. We are also very grateful for the support and funding of the [Centre for Climate Repair, Cambridge](https://www.climaterepair.cam.ac.uk/) and the [Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation](https://www.moore.org/).

# References

Commit message:

Attempted to add a couple of sentences about the ease of implimenting and modifying models

paper/paper.md, after:

---
title: 'OceanBioME.jl: A flexible environment for modelling the coupled interactions between ocean biogeochemistry and physics'
tags:
  - julia
  - biogeochemistry
  - climate
  - ocean
  - carbon
authors:
  - name: Jago Strong-Wright
    orcid: 0000-0002-7174-5283
    corresponding: true
    affiliation: "1, 2"
  - name: Si Chen
    affiliation: "1, 2"
    equal-contrib: true
  - name: Navid C Constantinou
    orcid: 0000-0002-8149-4094
    affiliation: 3, 4
    equal-contrib: true
  - name: Simone Silvestri
    affiliation: 5
    equal-contrib: true
  - name: Gregory LeClaire Wagner
    orcid: 0000-0001-5317-2445
    affiliation: 5
    equal-contrib: true
  - name: John R Taylor
    orcid : 0000-0002-1292-3756
    affiliation: "1, 2"
affiliations:
 - name: Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom
   index: 1
 - name: Centre for Climate Repair, Cambridge, United Kingdom
   index: 2
 - name: Australian National University, Australia
   index: 3
 - name: Australian Research Council Centre for Climate Extremes
   index: 4
 - name: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
   index: 5
date: 24 June 2023
bibliography: paper.bib
---

# Statement of Need

To date, about 25% of anthropogenic carbon emissions have been taken up by the ocean [@Friedlingstein2022]. 
This occurs through complex interactions between physics, chemistry, and biology, much of which is poorly understood. 
Due to the vast size of the ocean and the sparsity of data, modelling and data assimilation play a vital role in quantifying the ocean carbon cycle. 
Traditionally ocean biogeochemical (BGC) modelling involves large and inflexible code bases written in high-performance but low-level languages which require huge computational resources to execute. 
This causes a barrier to experimentation and innovation as users must develop expertise in both the science and complex code.

One area where novel ideas must be explored with BGC codes is assessing ocean carbon dioxide removal (OCDR) strategies. Quantifying the effectiveness and identifying the impacts of OCDR is challenging due to the aforementioned complexity of the ocean BGC system.
Moreover, field trials of OCDR interventions are generally small-scale and targeted, while the intervention required to have a climate-scale impact is regional or global.
This necessitates adaptable, easy-to-use, and verifiable BGC modelling tools which can be used to assess OCDR strategies at the fast pace with which they are being developed [@NationalAcademies2022].
We have built ``OceanBioME.jl`` to meet these challenges by creating a tool that provides a modular interface to the different components, within the ocean modelling framework provided by ``Oceananigans.jl``.
This allows easy access to a suite of biogeochemical models ranging from simple idealized to full-complexity models.
The flexibility of the ``Oceananigans.jl`` framework allows ``OceanBioME.jl`` to be applied across a wide range of scales and use cases, including small-scale large-eddy simulations and regional and global models.

# Summary

``OceanBioME.jl`` is a flexible modelling environment written in Julia [@julia] for modelling the coupled interactions between ocean biogeochemistry, carbonate chemistry, and physics.
``OceanBioME.jl`` can be used as a stand-alone box model, or integrated into ``Oceananigans.jl`` [@Oceananigans] simulations of ocean dynamics in one, two, or three dimensions.
As a result, ``OceanBioME.jl`` and ``Oceananigans.jl`` can be used to simulate the biogeochemical response across an enormous range of scales: from surface boundary layer turbulence at the meter scale to eddying global ocean simulations at the planetary scale, and on computational systems ranging from laptops to supercomputers.
An example of a problem involving small-scale flow features is shown in \autoref{eady}, which shows a simulation of a sub-mesoscale eddy in a 1km x 1km horizontal domain with an intermediate complexity biogeochemical model and a kelp growth model solved along the trajectories of drifting buoys (details of examples mentioned in this paper are listed at the end).
``OceanBioME.jl`` leverages Julia's multiple dispatch and effective inline capabilities to fuse its computations directly into existing ``Oceananigans.jl`` kernels, thus maintaining ``Oceananigans.jl``'s bespoke performance, memory- and cost-efficiency on GPUs in ``OceanBioME.jl``-augmented simulations.

![Here we replicate the Eady problem where a background buoyancy gradient and corresponding thermal wind generate a sub-mesoscale eddy, roughly following the setup of Taylor (2016).
To this physical setup, we added a medium complexity (9 tracers) biogeochemical model, some of which are shown above.
On top of this, we added particles modelling the growth of sugar kelp which are free-floating and advected by the flow, and carbon dioxide exchange from the air.
Thanks to Julia's speed and efficiency the above model (1 km × 1 km × 100 m with 64 × 64 × 16 grid points) took about 30 minutes of computing time to simulate 10 days of evolution on an Nvidia P100 GPU. 
Panel (a) shows the domain with the colour representing the concentration of various biogeochemical tracer fields: inorganic carbon, organic carbon (dissolved and particulate), phytoplankton, and nutrients. 
The increase in concentration in the centre of the eddy can be seen, as well as carbon being subducted (most visible in the xz face in the organic carbon).
Additionally, points on the surface represent the kelp particle positions, with the colour representing the range of frond size.
Panel (b) shows the carbon stored in each kelp frond, highlighting the variability depending on the nutrition availability in each particle's location history.
Figure made with ``Makie.jl`` [@makie]. \label{eady}](eady_example.png)

``OceanBioME.jl`` is built with a highly modular design that allows user control and customization.
There are two distinct module types implemented in ``OceanBioME.jl``:

- First, we provide tracer-based ecosystem modules in `AdvectedPopulations` as a set of coupled ordinary differential equations (ODEs) which evolve the concentration of the tracer.
These equations can be solved by ``OceanBioME.jl`` as box models, which is particularly useful for testing.
The same equations can be integrated by ``Oceananigans.jl`` to provide where the tracers are also advected and diffused.

- The second module type is `Individual` "biologically active" particles.
These consist of individual-based models solved along particle paths and can be coupled with the tracer-based modules and physics from ``Oceananigans.jl``.
The biologically active particles can be advected by the currents, and/or they can move according to prescribed dynamics.
For example, migrating zooplankton or fish can be modelled with biologically active particles and ``OceanBioME.jl`` allows these to interact with tracer-based components such as phytoplankton or oxygen.

For example, the `GasExchange` submodule calculates the carbon dioxide and oxygen flux at the sea surface, while the `Sediments` modules calculate fluxes of carbon and oxygen at the seafloor.

We currently provide a simple Nutrient-Phytoplankton-Zooplankton-Detritus (NPZD) model [@npzd], and an intermediate complexity model, LOBSTER [@lobster], we have set up a straightforward "plug and play" framework to add additional tracers such as carbonate and oxygen chemistry systems and additional forcing. 
A key feature of this package is the easy ability to modify models or add different formulations. 
If a user wanted to implement a different model they could use the existing ones as a template and modify only a few lines of code where the ODEs are defined as functions.
Alternatively, by harnessing another Julia feature, users could `import` specific functions from the models and overload only them.
For example, if a user wanted to modify the light limitation to phytoplankton growth in the NPZD model to copy that of the LOBSTER model they could pass different parameter values to the model and write:

```julia
import OceanBioME.NPZDModel: light_limitation

@inline light_limitation(PAR, α, μ₀) = 1 - exp(- PAR / α)
````

These `AdvectedPopulations` are supported by `Boundaries` modules which are easy to apply and provide information at the top and bottom of the ocean.
We have implemented comprehensive air-sea flux models [e.g. @wanninkhof:1992] within the `GasExchange` submodule to calculate carbon dioxide and oxygen flux at the sea surface, and sediment models [e.g. @soetaert:2000] which calculate fluxes of carbon and oxygen at the seafloor.
We focus on the simulation of idealized sub-mesoscale systems, but this flexible framework allows users to model problems of any scale.
For example, \autoref{global} shows the annual average surface phytoplankton concentration from a near-global model NPZD model run.
This framework is made possible by our contributions to ``Oceananigans.jl``, adding a streamlined user interface to swap biogeochemical models with no modification to other model configurations.
This interface also facilitates rapid prototyping, as models can be implemented and swapped easily by just extending a few key functions.
This flexibility and ease-of-use is unmatched in existing biogeochemical models.

![Here we show the annual average surface phytoplankton concentration from a near-global NPZD model run. 
It shows reasonably good reproduction of large-scale patterns for such a simple and uncalibrated model but demonstrates further work such as nutrient input from rivers and tuning physics parametrisations that are required in the future.
We ran this model with a 1° horizontal resolution and 48 (irregularly spaced) vertical points.
It took around 45 minutes per year to run on an Nvidia A100 GPU when integrating the physics, or around 5 minutes per year when using pre-calculated velocity fields.
Figure made with ``Makie.jl`` [@makie]. \label{global}](phytoplankton.png)

The biologically active particles built into ``OceanBioME.jl`` are particularly useful for OCDR applications.
Accurate carbon accounting is essential for assessing the effectiveness of OCDR strategies.
Biologically active particles can be used to track carbon from a particular source while accounting for interactions with its surroundings.
Biologically active particles can also be used to model OCDR deployment strategies including seaweed cultivation, alkalinity enhancement, and marine biomass regeneration.
``OceanBioME.jl`` currently includes an extended version of the sugar kelp model presented by @broch:2012 as an example of the utility and implementation of these features.
\autoref{column} shows a simple column model with an OCDR intervention (macroalgae growth) added after a warm-up period, which increases the carbon export of the system.

![Here we show the results of a 1D model, forced by idealised light and mixing, which qualitatively reproduces the biogeochemical cycles in the North Atlantic.
We then add kelp (500 frond / m² in the top 50 m of water) in December of the 2ⁿᵈ year (black vertical line) which causes an increase in air-sea carbon dioxide exchange and sinking export. Changes to the phytoplankton growth cycle are also apparent.
Figure made with ``Makie.jl`` [@makie]. \label{column}](column_example.png)

The implementation of OceanBioME.jl models allows for seamless integration with data assimilation packages, such as ``EnsembleKalmanProcesses.jl`` [@ekp]. 
This feature facilitates rapid calibration of model parameters, providing a powerful utility for integrating observations and models, with the potential to improve model skill and identify key sources of uncertainty.

A key metric for the validity of biogeochemical systems is the conservation of elements such as carbon and nitrogen in the system.
We therefore continuously test the implemented models in a variety of simple scenarios (i.e. isolated, with/without air-sea flux, with/without sediment) to ensure that conservation conditions are met, and we will continue to add tests for any new models.
Additionally, we check ``OceanBioME.jl`` utilities through standard tests such as comparison to analytical solutions for light attenuation, and conservation of tracers for active particle exudation and sinking.

Finally, this software is currently facilitating multiple research projects into ocean CDR which would have been significantly harder with other solutions.
For example, Chen (In prep.) is using the active particle coupling provided to investigate the effects of location and planting density of kelp in the open ocean on their carbon drawdown effect, as in the example above.
Additionally, Strong-Wright (In prep.) is using the coupling of both the biogeochemistry and easy interface to couple the physics to study flow interactions with a fully resolved giant kelp forest model including the effects on nutrient transport and distribution.

# Examples

| Example| OceanBioME features utilised        | Code location |
|--------------|--------------|---------------|
| Sub-mesoscale eddy (\autoref{eady}) | LOBSTER biogeochemical model$^1$ with carbonate model active, CO$_2$ exchange with the air$^2$, Light attenuation$^3$, mass conserving negativity protection$^4$ | `examples/eady.jl` with resolution increased to 64x64x16|
| Near-global (\autoref{global}) | Light attenuation$^3$, NPZD model$^5$| Work in progress, available upon request/for collaboration |
| Idealised 1D model with kelp individuals (\autoref{column}) |  LOBSTER biogeochemical model$^1$ with carbonate model and variable Redfield ratio for organic components active, CO$_2$ exchange with the air$^2$, light attenuation$^3$, mass conserving negativity protection$^4$, and Saccharina Latissima (sugar kelp) model$^6$ | `paper/figures/column.jl`, similar to `examples/column.jl` and `examples/kelp.jl` |

$^1$ `LOBSTER`\
$^2$ `GasExchange`\
$^3$ `TwoBandPhotosyntheticallyActiveRadiation`\
$^4$ `ScaleNegativeTracers`\
$^5$ `NutrientPhytoplanktonZooplanktonDetritus`\
$^6$ `SLatissima`

<!---
TODO: add eady plotting script
--->
# Acknowledgements

We would like to thank the [Climate Modeling Alliance](https://clima.caltech.edu) team and ``Oceananigans.jl`` contributors for their fantastic project. We are also very grateful for the support and funding of the [Centre for Climate Repair, Cambridge](https://www.climaterepair.cam.ac.uk/) and the [Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation](https://www.moore.org/).

# References
